[GRPC] Add documentation for GRPC plugin, and Bulk+Search GRPC APIs (#9649)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _api-reference/grpc-apis/search.md

---
layout: default
title: Search gRPC
parent: GRPC APIs
nav_order: 20
redirect_from:
 - /opensearch/rest-api/grpc-apis/search/
---

# Search (gRPC)
**Introduced 3.0**
{: .label .label-purple }

> The gRPC Search API provides a performant, binary interface to run [OpenSearch queries]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/api-reference/search/) using Protocol Buffers over gRPC. It mirrors the capabilities of the HTTP Search API while benefiting from protobuf-typed contracts and gRPC transport. The gRPC APis are ideal for low-latency, high-throughput applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The gRPC Search API provides a performant, binary interface to run [queries]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/api-reference/search/) using protocol buffers over gRPC. It mirrors the capabilities of the HTTP Search API while benefiting from protobuf-typed contracts and gRPC transport. The gRPC APis are ideal for low-latency, high-throughput applications.
```

> This plugin is experimental and not recommended for production use. APIs and behavior may change without notice in future releases.

Reviewer: We can remove this once the experimental warning is in place.

{: .note}

## Client protobufs 

> 1. Refer to the full protobuf schema in the [OpenSearch Protobufs GitHub repository (v0.3.0)](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs) for the source of truth:  

Reviewer: Could you add an intro sentence for this list?

* [search_service.proto](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.3.0/protos/services/search_service.proto)  
* [search.proto](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.3.0/protos/schemas/search.proto)   
1. Java clients can also download the  `opensearch-protobufs`  jar from the [Central Maven repository](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/org/opensearch/protobufs/0.3.0).

> ## Usage notes 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> * Currently, only basic queries (`match_all`, `term`, `terms`, `match_none`) are supported. Additional query types will be supported in future releases.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, only basic queries (`match_all`, `term`, `terms`, `match_none`) are supported. Additional query types will be supported in future releases.  
{: .note}
```

> * The source documents will be returned as bytes. Use base64 decoding to read `_source` field in the GRPC response. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The source documents are returned as bytes. Use Base64 decoding to read the `_source` field in the gRPC response. 
```

> ## Request fields 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Request fields 

The gRPC Search API supports the following request fields.
```

> ### SearchRequest fields 

Reviewer: As above, please avoid using Java classes as names unless necessary.

The [SearchRequest](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.3.0/protos/schemas/search.proto#L18) message is the top-level container for a gRPC search request. 

> The `SearchRequest` message accepts the following fields. All fields are optional. 

Reviewer: Please make the format similar to the API Template.

| multi_match | MultiMatchQuery | (Optional.) Searches multiple fields with a single query string. Must be the only field set. |
| query_string | QueryStringQuery | (Optional.) Parses advanced queries from a single string. Must be the only field set. |
| simple_query_string | SimpleQueryStringQuery | (Optional.) Less strict syntax alternative to `query_string`. Ignores invalid syntax. Must be the only field set. |
| intervals | map<string, IntervalsQuery> | (Optional.) Matches terms based on position/proximity. Only one entry allowed. Must be the only field set. |
| knn | map<string, KnnField> | (Optional.) k-Nearest Neighbors query across vector fields. Only one entry allowed. Must be the only field set. |
| match_all | MatchAllQuery | (Optional.) Matches all documents in the index. Must be the only field set. |
| match_none | MatchNoneQuery | (Optional.) Matches no documents. Must be the only field set. |
| script_score | ScriptScoreQuery | (Optional.) Custom scoring using scripts. Must be the only field set. |
| nested | NestedQuery | (Optional.) Wraps a query targeting nested fields. Must be the only field set. |

## Supported queries 

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The gRPC Search API supports the following queries.

```

> ### 1. Match all query 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Match all query 
```

> Returns all documents from the index, capped to a maximum of 50 docs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Returns all documents from the index. For example, the following request returns a maximum of 50 documents from the index:
```

```json

> {

Reviewer: Please include the endpoints in the requests.

Author: Similar to bulk.md, added a section `GRPC Service and Method`

  "request_body": {
    "query": {
      "match_all": {}
    },
    "size": 50
  }
}
```
{% include copy.html %}

> ### 2. Term query 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Term query 
```

> Match a single field with a specific term.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Matches a single field with a specific term:
```

```json
{
  "index": "my_index",
  "request_body": {
    "query": {
      "term": {
        "title": {
          "value": {
            "string_value": "Rush"
          },
          "case_insensitive": true
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy.html %}

> ### 3. Terms query 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Terms query 
```

> Match documents where a specific field contains any  value from a list. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Matches documents in which a specific field contains any value from a list. 
```

> The following query searches for lines with the IDs 61809 and 61810:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, the following query searches for lines with the IDs 61809 and 61810:
```

```json
{
 "request_body": {
   "query": {
     "terms": {
       "terms_lookup_field_string_array_map": {
         "line_id": {
           "string_array": {
             "string_array": [
               "61809",
                    "61810"
             ]
           }
         }
       }
     }
   }
 }
}

> EOM

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```
{% include copy.html %}

> ### 4. Terms query with terms lookup

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Terms query with terms lookup
```

> Match documents in the `students` index for every student whose `id` matches one of the values in the `enrolled` array:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Matches documents in the `students` index for every student whose `id` matches one of the values in the `enrolled` array:
```

```json
{
  "request_body": {
    "query": {
      "terms": {
        "boost": 1.0,
        "terms_lookup_field_string_array_map": {
          "student_id": {
            "terms_lookup_field": {
              "index": "classes",
              "id": "101",
              "path": "enrolled"
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy.html %}

> ### 5. Match none

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Match none
```

> The counterpart to the Match All query. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Matches none of the documents:
```

```json
{
  "request_body": {
    "query": {
      "match_none": {}
    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy.html %}

> ## Response 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Response fields

The gRPC Search API provides the following response fields.

```

### SearchResponse fields 

> | Field | Protobuf Type | Description |

Reviewer: Please make the format similar to the API template and add an intro sentence for each table.

| seq_no | int64 | (Optional.) Sequence number (used for indexing history/versioning). |
| primary_term | int64 | (Optional.) Primary term number (used for optimistic concurrency control). |
| version | int64 | (Optional.) Document version number. |
| sort | repeated FieldValue | (Optional.) Sort values used in the result sorting. |
| meta_fields | ObjectMap | (Optional.) Metadata values for the document. |

`source` is base64-encoded and must be decoded to obtain the JSON document.
{: .note}

### Example response
```json
{
  "responseBody": {
    "took": "64",
    "timedOut": false,
    "shards": {
      "successful": 1,
      "total": 1
    },
    "hits": {
      "total": {
        "totalHits": {
          "relation": "TOTAL_HITS_RELATION_EQ",
          "value": "1"
        }
      },
      "hits": [
        {
          "index": "my_index",
          "id": "3",
          "score": {
            "floatValue": 1
          },
          "source": "eyAidGl0bGUiOiAiUnVzaCIsICJ5ZWFyIjogMjAxM30=",
          "metaFields": {}
        }
      ],
      "maxScore": {
        "floatValue": 1
      }
    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy.html %}

## Java gRPC client example 

> ```java

Reviewer: Please add an intro sentence for this code block.

[`terms`](#terms-query), and [`match_none`](#match-none-query). Additional query types will be supported in future releases.  
{: .note}

## Request fields 

The gRPC Search API supports the following request fields.

### SearchRequest fields 

The [`SearchRequest`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.3.0/protos/schemas/search.proto#L18) message accepts the following fields. All fields are optional. 

| Field | Protobuf type | Description |
| :---- | :---- | :---- |
| `index` | `repeated string` | A list of indexes to search. If not provided, defaults to all indexes. |
| `source` | [`SourceConfigParam`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.3.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L154) | Controls whether to return the full `_source`, no `_source`, or only specific fields from `_source` in the response. |
| `source_excludes` | `repeated string` | Fields to exclude from `_source`. Ignored if `source` is `false`. |
| `source_includes` | `repeated string` | Fields to include in `_source`. Ignored if `source` is `false`.  |
| `allow_no_indices` | `bool` | Whether to ignore wildcards that match no indexes. Default is `true`. |

> | `allow_partial_search_results` | `bool` | Whether to return partial results on error or timeout. Default is `true`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `allow_partial_search_results` | `bool` | Whether to return partial results upon an error or timeout. Default is `true`. |
```

| `explain` | `bool` | Whether to return document score computation details. Default is `false`. |
| `from` | `int32` | The starting index for paginated results. Default is `0`. |
| `ignore_throttled` | `bool` | Whether to ignore frozen indexes when resolving aliases. Default is `true`. |
| `ignore_unavailable` | `bool` | Whether to ignore unavailable indexes or shards. Default is `false`. |
| `include_named_queries_score` | `bool` | Whether to include scores for named queries. Default is `false`. |
| `lenient` | `bool` | Whether to accept format errors in queries. Default is `false`. |
| `max_concurrent_shard_requests` | `int32` | The number of concurrent shard requests per node. Default is `5`. |
| `phase_took` | `bool` | Whether to return phase-level `took` values. Default is `false`. |
| `pre_filter_shard_size` | `int32` | The threshold at which to trigger prefiltering by shard size. Default is `128`. |
| `preference` | `string` | The shard or node preferences for query execution. |
| `q` | `string` | The query string in [Lucene syntax]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/query-dsl/full-text/query-string/#query-string-syntax). |

> | `request_cache` | `bool` | Whether to use request cache. Defaults to the index's settings. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `request_cache` | `bool` | Whether to use the request cache. Defaults to the index's settings. |
```

| `rest_total_hits_as_int` | `bool` | Whether to return the number of total hits as an integer. Default is `false`. |
| `routing` | `repeated string` | The routing values in order to direct requests to specific shards. |

> | `scroll` | `string` | The amount of time to keep the search context alive for scrolling. |

Reviewer: I'd rather keep as is. "Keep alive" is the industry term.

| `suggest_mode` | [`SuggestMode`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.3.0/protos/schemas/search.proto#L145) | The suggestion mode (for example, `always`, `missing`, `popular`). |
| `suggest_size` | `int32` | The number of suggestions to return. |
| `suggest_text` | `string` | The input text for generating suggestions. |
| `terminate_after` | `int32` | The maximum number of documents to process before early termination. Default is `0`. |
| `timeout` | `string` | The maximum amount of time to wait for query execution. Default is `1m`. |
| `track_scores` | `bool` | Whether to return document scores. Default is `false`. |
| `track_total_hits` | [`TrackHits`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.3.0/protos/schemas/search.proto#L309) | Whether to include total hits metadata. |
| `typed_keys` | `bool` | Whether to include type information in aggregation and suggestion keys. Default is `true`. |
| `verbose_pipeline` | `bool` | Whether to enable verbose mode for the search pipeline. |
| `version` | `bool` | Whether to return the document version in the response. |

> | `request_body` | [`SearchRequestBody`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.3.0/protos/schemas/search.proto#L176) | The main search request payload, including query and filters. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `request_body` | [`SearchRequestBody`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.3.0/protos/schemas/search.proto#L176) | The main search request payload, including the query and filters. |
```

| `track_total_hits` | [`TrackHits`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.3.0/protos/schemas/search.proto#L309) | Whether to return the total hit count. |
| `indices_boost` | `repeated` [`NumberMap`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.3.0/protos/schemas/search.proto#L747) | Per-index boost multipliers in the `<index>: <boost>` format. |
| `docvalue_fields` | `repeated` [`FieldAndFormat`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.3.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L962) | The fields returned using doc values, optionally formatted. |
| `min_score` | float | The minimum score required for a document to be included in results. |
| `post_filter` | [`QueryContainer`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.3.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L342) | Filters hits after aggregations are applied. |
| `profile` | `bool` | Enables profiling to analyze query performance. |
| `search_pipeline` | `string` | The name of the search pipeline to apply. |
| `verbose_pipeline` | `bool` | Enables verbose logging in the search pipeline. |

> | `query` | [`QueryContainer`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.3.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L342) | The query DSL for the search. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `query` | [`QueryContainer`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.3.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L342) | The query domain-specific language (DSL) for the search. |
```

| `rescore` | `repeated` [`Rescore`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.3.0/protos/schemas/search.proto#L631) | Reranks the top N hits to improve precision. |
| `script_fields` | `map<string, `[`ScriptField`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.3.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L580)`>` | Custom fields whose values are computed by scripts. |

> | `search_after` | `repeated` [`FieldValue`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.3.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L2002) | Cursor-based pagination using values from previous page. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `search_after` | `repeated` [`FieldValue`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.3.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L2002) | Cursor-based pagination using values from the previous page. |
```

### Hit fields

Each `Hit` represents a single document matched by the query and contains the following fields. 

| Field | Protobuf type | Description |
| :---- | :---- | :---- |
| `index` | `string` | The name of the index containing the returned document. |
| `id` | `string` | The unique ID for the document within the index. |
| `score` | [`Score`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.3.0/protos/schemas/search.proto#L469) | The relevance score of the hit. |
| `explanation` | [`Explanation`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.3.0/protos/schemas/search.proto#L951) | Text explanation of how the `_score` was calculated. |
| `fields` | [`ObjectMap`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.3.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L76) | The document field values. |
| `highlight` | `map<string, `[`StringArray`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.3.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L165)`>` | Highlighted fields and fragments per hit. |

> | `inner_hits` | `map<string, `[`InnerHitsResult`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.3.0/protos/schemas/search.proto#L453)`>` | The nested hits responsible for the match in another scope. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `inner_hits` | `map<string, `[`InnerHitsResult`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.3.0/protos/schemas/search.proto#L453)`>` | The matching nested documents from a different scope that contributed to the overall query result. |
```

> | `inner_hits` | `map<string, `[`InnerHitsResult`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.3.0/protos/schemas/search.proto#L453)`>` | The nested hits responsible for the match in another scope. |

Reviewer: Reworded.

| `matched_queries` | `repeated string` | A list of query names that matched for this document. |
| `nested` | [`NestedIdentity`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.3.0/protos/schemas/search.proto#L962) | The path to the inner nested object from which this hit originated. |
| `ignored` | `repeated string` | A list of ignored fields. |
| `ignored_field_values` | `map<string, `[`StringArray`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.3.0/protos/schemas/common.proto#L165)`>` | Raw, unprocessed values from the document's original JSON. |
| `shard` | `string` | The shard ID from which this hit was retrieved. |
| `node` | `string` | The node ID from which this hit was retrieved. |
| `routing` | `string` | The routing value used for custom shard routing. |

> | `source` | `bytes` | Base64-encoded `_source` document. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `source` | `bytes` | The Base64-encoded `_source` document. |
```

| `lenient` | `bool` | Whether to accept format errors in queries. Default is `false`. |
| `max_concurrent_shard_requests` | `int32` | The number of concurrent shard requests per node. Default is `5`. |
| `phase_took` | `bool` | Whether to return phase-level `took` values. Default is `false`. |
| `pre_filter_shard_size` | `int32` | The threshold at which to trigger prefiltering by shard size. Default is `128`. |
| `preference` | `string` | The shard or node preferences for query execution. |
| `q` | `string` | The query string in [Lucene syntax]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/query-dsl/full-text/query-string/#query-string-syntax). |
| `request_cache` | `bool` | Whether to use request cache. Defaults to the index's settings. |
| `rest_total_hits_as_int` | `bool` | Whether to return the number of total hits as an integer. Default is `false`. |
| `routing` | `repeated string` | The routing values used to direct requests to specific shards. |
| `scroll` | `string` | The amount of time to keep the search context alive for scrolling. |
| `search_pipeline` | `string` | The name of the search pipeline to use. |

> | `search_type` | [`SearchType`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.3.0/protos/schemas/search.proto#L109) | The method for calculating relevance scores. Valid values are `QUERY_THEN_FETCH` and `DFS_QUERY_THEN_FETCH`. Default is `QUERY_THEN_FETCH`. |

Author: ```suggestion
| `search_type` | [`SearchType`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-protobufs/blob/0.3.0/protos/schemas/search.proto#L109) | The method for calculating relevance scores. Valid values are `QUERY_THEN_FETCH` and `DFS_QUERY_THEN_FETCH`. The default is `QUERY_THEN_FETCH`. |
```

Reviewer: We normally use "Default is" wording so leaving as is.
